0.3.x-Table-of-Contents.md, before:



<h2>Table of Contents
<a href="https://travis-ci.org/amark/gun"><img align="right" alt="Build status" src="https://travis-ci.org/amark/gun.svg?branch=master" /></a>
<a href="https://gitter.im/amark/gun?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge"><img align="right" alt="Gitter channel" src="https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg" /></a>
</h2>


### **[API Reference](API-(0.3.x))** 

 - [Gun constructor](API-(v0.3.x)#Gun)
 - [gun.put](API-(v0.3.x)#put)
 - [gun.key](API-(v0.3.x)#key)
 - [gun.get](API-(v0.3.x)#gt)
 - [gun.path](API-(v0.3.x)#path)
 - [gun.back](API-(v0.3.x)#back)
 - [gun.on](API-(v0.3.x)#on)
 - [gun.map](API-(v0.3.x)#map)
 - [gun.val](API-(v0.3.x)#val)
 - [gun.not](API-(v0.3.x)#not)


### [Modules](Modules) 
   GUN is designed to be as minimal as possible, with any additional functionality being provided via modules.  Please refer to the [modules](modules) page for a list of existing extensions. Please refer to the [gun-extensions](https://github.com/gundb/gun-extensions/issues) repo to see what extensions have been requested or to request an extension.

### [Projects](Projects) 
   GUN users are encouraged to add their projects to this [running projects list](projects).

### Getting Started
 - If you haven't already done so, check out the [README](https://github.com/amark/gun/blob/master/README.md).
 - Until we complete the [Getting Started with GUN](getting-started-(v0.3.x)) Guide, please review the [API documentation](0.3.x-API) and [examples' source code](../blob/master/examples).
 - Check out and add example code [snippets](snippets-(0.3.x)) —including micro-modules— to address specific situations.

### Getting Assistance

<dl>
  <dt>Usage Questions</dt>
  <dd>Use the <code>gun</code> tag on
    <a href="http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/gun">StackOverflow</a>
  </dd>

  <dt>Issues</dt>
  <dd>Add an issue to our
    <a href="https://github.com/amark/gun/issues">GitHub repo</a>
  </dd>

  <dt>Discussion</dt>
  <dd>Say hello on our
    <a href="https://gitter.im/amark/gun">Gitter channel</a>
  </dd>
</dl>

### Contributing
There are many ways that you can contribute to gun, some of the more popular are to:  
 - Star this repo
 - Follow us and share your appreciation via [Twitter](https://twitter.com/databasegun), [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/gun-inc), and [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/databasegun]
 - [Share projects you've written](projects)
 - [Build extensions or squish bugs](https://waffle.io/amark/gun)
         - If you are working on an extension, familiarize yourself with the [Extending GUN's API](Extending-Gun)

## [License](../blob/master/LICENSE.md)

Designed with ♥ by Mark Nadal, the gun team, and many very awesome contributors.  Liberally licensed under [Zlib / MIT / Apache 2.0](../blob/master/LICENSE.md).

## [Changelog](https://github.com/amark/gun/blob/develop/CHANGELOG.md#03)

Also see the current [Release List](../releases) and [Tag List](../tags) for quick access to relevant versions.

==========================
<a name="stay-up-to-date"></a>
[![YouTube](https://img.shields.io/badge/You-Tube-red.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCQAtpf-zi9Pp4__2nToOM8g) [![LinkedIn](https://img.shields.io/badge/Linked-In-blue.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/gun-inc) [![Twitter Follow](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/databasegun.svg?style=social)](https://twitter.com/databasegun)

Commit message:

Added link to chaining table reference

0.3.x-Table-of-Contents.md, after:



<h2>Table of Contents
<a href="https://travis-ci.org/amark/gun"><img align="right" alt="Build status" src="https://travis-ci.org/amark/gun.svg?branch=master" /></a>
<a href="https://gitter.im/amark/gun?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge"><img align="right" alt="Gitter channel" src="https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg" /></a>
</h2>


### **[API Reference](API-(0.3.x))** 

 - [Gun constructor](API-(v0.3.x)#Gun)
 - [gun.put](API-(v0.3.x)#put)
 - [gun.key](API-(v0.3.x)#key)
 - [gun.get](API-(v0.3.x)#gt)
 - [gun.path](API-(v0.3.x)#path)
 - [gun.back](API-(v0.3.x)#back)
 - [gun.on](API-(v0.3.x)#on)
 - [gun.map](API-(v0.3.x)#map)
 - [gun.val](API-(v0.3.x)#val)
 - [gun.not](API-(v0.3.x)#not)  
  
[Chaining](Chaining) - reference table for chaining dependencies


### [Modules](Modules) 
   GUN is designed to be as minimal as possible, with any additional functionality being provided via modules.  Please refer to the [modules](modules) page for a list of existing extensions. Please refer to the [gun-extensions](https://github.com/gundb/gun-extensions/issues) repo to see what extensions have been requested or to request an extension.

### [Projects](Projects) 
   GUN users are encouraged to add their projects to this [running projects list](projects).

### Getting Started
 - If you haven't already done so, check out the [README](https://github.com/amark/gun/blob/master/README.md).
 - Until we complete the [Getting Started with GUN](getting-started-(v0.3.x)) Guide, please review the [API documentation](0.3.x-API) and [examples' source code](../blob/master/examples).
 - Check out and add example code [snippets](snippets-(0.3.x)) —including micro-modules— to address specific situations.

### Getting Assistance

<dl>
  <dt>Usage Questions</dt>
  <dd>Use the <code>gun</code> tag on
    <a href="http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/gun">StackOverflow</a>
  </dd>

  <dt>Issues</dt>
  <dd>Add an issue to our
    <a href="https://github.com/amark/gun/issues">GitHub repo</a>
  </dd>

  <dt>Discussion</dt>
  <dd>Say hello on our
    <a href="https://gitter.im/amark/gun">Gitter channel</a>
  </dd>
</dl>

### Contributing
There are many ways that you can contribute to gun, some of the more popular are to:  
 - Star this repo
 - Follow us and share your appreciation via [Twitter](https://twitter.com/databasegun), [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/gun-inc), and [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/databasegun]
 - [Share projects you've written](projects)
 - [Build extensions or squish bugs](https://waffle.io/amark/gun)
         - If you are working on an extension, familiarize yourself with the [Extending GUN's API](Extending-Gun)

## [License](../blob/master/LICENSE.md)

Designed with ♥ by Mark Nadal, the gun team, and many very awesome contributors.  Liberally licensed under [Zlib / MIT / Apache 2.0](../blob/master/LICENSE.md).

## [Changelog](https://github.com/amark/gun/blob/develop/CHANGELOG.md#03)

Also see the current [Release List](../releases) and [Tag List](../tags) for quick access to relevant versions.

==========================
<a name="stay-up-to-date"></a>
[![YouTube](https://img.shields.io/badge/You-Tube-red.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCQAtpf-zi9Pp4__2nToOM8g) [![LinkedIn](https://img.shields.io/badge/Linked-In-blue.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/gun-inc) [![Twitter Follow](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/databasegun.svg?style=social)](https://twitter.com/databasegun)
