API-(v0.3.x).md, before:

---------------------------------------------------------------------

***Please post documentation comments, questions, and suggestions to
[[issue #70|https://github.com/amark/gun/issues/70]].***

---------------------------------------------------------------------

> **This page is currently being written**

**Table of Contents**
 - [Gun constructor](#Gun)
 - [gun.put](#put)
   - [examples](#examples-1)
   - [chain](#chain-context)
 - [gun.key](#key)
   - [examples](#examples-2)
   - [chain](#chain-context-1)
 - [gun.get](#get)
   - [examples](#examples-3)
   - [chain](#chain-context-2)
 - [gun.path](#path)
   - [chain](#chain-context-3)
 - [gun.back](#back)
   - [examples](#examples-4)
   - [chain](#chain-context-4)
 - [gun.on](#on)
 - [gun.map](#map)
 - [gun.val](#val)
 - [gun.not](#not)

# <a name="Gun"></a>Gun(options)
Used to creates a new gun database instance.

```javascript
var gun = new Gun(options)
```
> **note:** `Gun` works with or without the `new` operator.

## Options

 - `no params/undefined` creates a local datastore using the default persistence layer, either localStorage or a JSON file.

 - passing an `array` of URLs creates a local datastore and attempts to sync it with each URL.

   - when only syncing with a single peer, you can leave out the array, sending in just a `string`.

 - `{ peers, wire, uuid... }` the previous options are actually aggregated into an `object` under the hood.

   - `options.peers` is an object, where the URLs are properties, and the value is an empty object.

   - `options.wire` allows you to manually override module hooks for `put` and `get`
     (however, gun exposes a more streamlined approach for building extensions and modules).

   - `options.uuid` allows you to override the default 24 random alphanumeric soul generator with
      your own function.

   - `options['module name']` allows you to pass options to a 3rd party module. Their project README
     will likely list the exposed options.
     [Here is a list of such modules...](https://github.com/amark/gun/wiki#modules)

   - `options.init` is a boolean that tells the system whether you want to implicitly create
	   data if it doesn't exist.

### Examples
Sync with one peer
```javascript
Gun('http://yourdomain.com/gun')
```

Sync with many peers
```javascript
Gun(['http://server1.com', 'http://server2.com'])
```

Working with modules
```javascript
Gun({
  // Amazon S3 (comes bundled)
  s3: {
    key: '',
    secret: '',
    bucket: ''
  },

  // simple JSON persistence (bundled)
  // meant for ease of getting started
  // NOT meant for production
  file: 'file/path.json'
})
```

Advanced options
```javascript
Gun({
  // set your own UUID function
  uuid: function () {...},

  // set your own get/put handlers
  wire: {
    get: getHandler,
    put: putHandler
  },

  // disable implicit collections
  init: false
})
```
---------------------------------------------------------
<h1><a name="put"></a>gun.put(data, callback)</h1>
Save data into gun, syncing it with your connected peers.

It has three parameters, and only the first is required:

 1. the `data` to save
 2. an optional `callback`, invoked on each acknowledgment
 3. an `options` object, though no options are available yet

`gun.put(data, callback)`

## Allowed types

`.put` restricts the input to a specific subset:

 - `objects`:
   [partial](https://github.com/amark/gun/wiki/Partials-and-Circular-References#),
   [circular](https://github.com/amark/gun/wiki/Partials-and-Circular-References#circular-references), and nested
 - `strings`
 - `numbers`
 - `booleans`
 - `null`

Gun will refuse `undefined`, `NaN`, `Infinity`, and `arrays`.

> Traditional arrays are dangerous in real-time apps

## Callback(error, ok)
  
The `callback` is fired each time a peer responds with an error or successful persistence message, including the local cache. Acknowledgement can be slow, but the write propagates across networks as fast as the pipes connecting them.

If the error argument is undefined, then the operation succeeded, although the exact values are left up to the module developer.

## Examples

Saving objects
```javascript
gun.path('propertyName').put({
  property: 'value',
  object: {
    nested: true
  }
})
```

Saving primitives
```javascript
// strings
gun.path('name.first').put('Dave')

// numbers
gun.path('temperature').put(58.6)

// booleans
gun.path('enabled').put(true)
```

Using the callback
```javascript
gun.path('survey.submission').put(submission, function (err) {
  if (err) {
    return ui.show.error(err)
  }
  ui.show.success(true)
})
```

## Chain context
`gun.put` does not change the gun context.
```javascript
gun.path('key').put(value) /* same context as */ gun.path('key')
```

--------------------------------------------------
# <a name="key"></a>gun.key(name)
Index your data, so you can find it later, faster.

We can think of keys as variables pointing to an object, and a node can have more than one name. Keys are one of gun's more powerful features.

The `.key` method takes 3 arguments, and only the first is required:
 - the `name` of the category to join under
 - the `callback` to invoke on each acknowledgment
 - `options` for configuration

## Name
A string representing the name of a group to attach a node to. Common practice is to namespace your keys into routes: `.key('users/cities/Provo')`

> **note:** keys are case sensitive

## Callback(error, ok)
The same behavior as the callback in [gun.put](#put).

## Options
Ignore the chain context, tagging a node directly by it's soul.
```javascript
// find node by soul "Zwl6..." and tag it under "examples"
gun.key('examples', null, 'Zwl6PaS4oo7Ivt21X5bU0nds')
```

## Examples
Aggregating data into a named object

```javascript
gun.get(group).path('members').map(function (member) {
  // group each member's interests together
  this.path('interests').key(interests)
})

// each member's interests
// now indexed into a single group
gun.get(interests)
```

Tagging data on insertion
```javascript
gun.get(group).path([memberID, 'contact']).put({
  twitter: '@databaseGun',
  gitter: 'gitter.im/amark/gun'
}).key(group + '/' + memberID + '/contact')
```
By putting a name on the data, the operation will be faster in the future since it won't need to request the potentially large `group` object, or even the member object. We can skip straight to the data we need. This functionality pairs nicely with [`.not`](#not).

## Chain context
`gun.key` does not change the context.
```javascript
gun.path('node').key('nodes') /* same context as */ gun.path('node')
```

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
# <a name="get"></a>gun.get(name)
Load all data under that [key](#key) into the context, saving it to local persistence.

It takes three parameters:

 - `keyName`
 - `callback`
 - `options`

You'll almost never need to use the `callback` or `options` parameters, unless you're building bare-metal extensions.

## Name
The [`keyName`](#key) string is the name of the data you want to retrieve.

> Note that if you use `.path` or `.put` after retrieving a key that doesn't exist, the key is implicitly initialized as an empty object.

```javascript
gun.get(existingData).put({ property: 'value' })
/*
  {
    data: ...,
    property: 'value',
    data: ...
  }
*/

gun.get(nonExistentKey).put({ property: 'value' })
// { property: 'value' }
```

## Callback(error, node)
The callback is a listener for errors and raw node data. It may be called multiple times for a single request, since gun uses a streaming architecture. If you need to listen for incoming data, use [`.not`](#not) or [`.val`](#val).

> The callback is exposed for bare-metal extensions. Most developers will never need it.

```javascript
gun.get(key, function (error, node) {
  // called many times
})
```

## Options
Currently one option is standardized: force gun to draw from persistence, not memory.

```javascript
// read from storage, not memory
gun.get(key, null, {
  force: true
})
```

## Examples

Retrieving a key
```javascript
// retrieve all available seats
gun.get('seats/available').map(ui.show.seats)
```

Using the callback
```javascript
gun.get(key, function (error, node) {
  if (error) {
    server.log(error)
  }
})
```

## Chain context
After calling `gun.get`, the chain context refers to the data you requested, regardless of what happened before calling `gun.get`.

```javascript
gun.get('materials').get('users') /* same context as */ gun.get('users')
```

---------------------------------------
# <a name="path"></a>gun.path(property)
Navigate through a node's properties

`.path` accepts three parameters, but only the first is required.

 - the `property` name
 - an optional `callback` function
 - an `options` object, although none are supported yet

## Property
The `property` is the name of the field to move to.

```javascript
// move to the "themes" field on the settings object
gun.get('settings').path('themes')
```

Once you've changed the context, you can read, write, and `path` forward from that field. Although you can just chain one `path` after another, that can be unnecessarily verbose, so there are two shorthand styles:

 - dot format
 - array format

Here's dot notation in action:
```javascript
// verbose
gun.get('settings').path('themes').path('active')

// shorthand
gun.get('settings').path('themes.active')
```

And the array format, which really becomes useful when using variables instead of literal strings:
```javascript
gun.get('settings').path(['themes', themeName])
```

> If at any point the path is undefined, it's implicitly initialized as an empty object.

### Unexpected behavior
The dot notation can do some strange things if you're not expecting it. Under the hood, everything is changed into a string, including floating point numbers. If you use a decimal in your path, it will split into two paths...
```javascript
gun.path(30.5)
// interprets to
gun.path(30).path(5)
```

This can be especially confusing if you've disabled implicit initialization, as the chain might never resolve to a value.

We may change this in the near future.

## Callback(error, data, property)
The `callback` is used by bare-metal extensions to provide handling for errors and raw data streams. Like `.get`, if you want to listen for new data, use the [`.on`](#on) or [`.val`](#val) methods. With that said, the callback takes three arguments:

 - `error`
 - the `data` partial
 - the `property` name

## Chain context
`gun.path` creates a new context each time it's called, and is always a result of the previous context.
```javascript
gun.get('API').path('path').path('chain')
/* is different from */
gun.get('API').path('path')
/* and is different from */
gun.get('API')
```

-----------------------------
# <a name="back"></a>gun.back
Move up to the parent context on the chain.

Every time a new chain is created, a reference to the old context is kept in the `back` property. It's not a function, but a reference to the `this` value you had *before* it was changed. For example, when calling [`.path`](#path), a new context is assigned to the `this` value, allowing you to chain directly off your context in jQuery style. If you want to return to your old context, just use `gun.back`.

## Examples
Moving to a parent context
```javascript
gun.get('peers')
  /* change the context to my peer */
  .path(myself)
  .put(me)
  /* go back to the "get" statement */
  .back.map(...)
```

Another example
```javascript
gun.get('players').get('game/history').back
// is the same as...
gun.get('players')
```

## Chain Context
The context will always be different, since `.back`'s only purpose is to change it.
```javascript
gun.path('property') /* is not the same as */ gun.path('property').back
```

------------------------------------
# <a name="on"></a> gun.on(callback)

  - Retrieve the raw javascript data associated with the `key`, and subscribe to all subsequent realtime changes. You want to use this method to actually synchronously react to your data, rather than being stuck in async land.

  - `callback` is a `function(){}` which gets called as `callback(data, field)` and every time the node changes. Where

    - `data` is a raw javascript object or primitive.

    - `field` is the field name it came from, if any.

  - `options` as `true` aggregates into an `{obj:'ect'}` with

    - `options.change` as `true` makes `data` only have the delta difference of the change that happened, rather than the full node again and again.

  - Examples

    - ... 
      ```javascript
      gun.get('user/thedoctor').on(function(who, field){
        console.log('The Doctor', who, field);
        // {title: "The Doctor", phone: '770-090-0461'}
      })
      ```

    - While this looks no different from above, the `delta` will be on subsequent events. 
      ```javascript
      gun.get('user/thedoctor').on(function(delta, field){
        console.log('What changes happened to The Doctor?', delta, field);
        // {title: "The Doctor", phone: '770-090-0461'}
      }, true)
      ```

-------------------------------------
# <a name="map"></a>gun.map(callback)

  - Rather than having to know each field in advance and have to path into it separately, we can iterate over each field dynamically.

  - `callback` is a `function(){}` which gets called as `callback(data, field)`, you can either use it as is or in conjunction with **on** or **val**. In the future this `callback` will be used to filter the data or do arbitrary queries.

  - `options` as `true` aggregates into an `{obj:'ect'}` with

    - `options.node` as `true` makes map only iterate over nested objects, skipping primitive values.

  - Examples

    - ...
      ```javascript
      gun.get('user/thedoctor').map(function(value, field){
        console.log("For each field", value, field);
        // '770-090-0461', 'phone'
        // 'The Doctor', 'title'
      })
      ```

    - ...
      ```javascript
      gun.get('user/thedoctor').map().on(function(value, field){
        console.log("For each field, and on every change", value, field);
        // '770-090-0461', 'phone'
        // 'The Doctor', 'title'
      })
      ```

    - ...
      ```javascript
      gun.get('user/thedoctor').map().val(function(value, field){
        console.log("For each field, just once", value, field);
        // '770-090-0461', 'phone'
        // 'The Doctor', 'title'
      })
      ```


--------------------------------------
# <a name="not"></a> gun.not(callback)

  - Sometimes you might want to check if data on a key has not yet been defined. **Warning** there is no guarantee that the data does not actually exist somewhere on some peer that got disconnected. But, if you are using gun in a fairly traditional client-server setup this should mostly work but we still advise to avoid it.

  - `callback` is a `function(){}` which gets called as `callback(key, kick)` only if the `key` could not be found, where

    - `key` is the key name that could not be found.

    - `kick` is a `function(){}` which you call as `kick(chain)` where `chain` is some gun reference. Generally this is not needed, so you can simply `return chain` instead.

  - `options` none currently available.

  - Examples

    - ...
      ```javascript
      gun.get('somewhere').not(function(key, kick){
        return gun.put({hello: "world"}).key(key);
      }).val()
      ```
      if `'somewhere'` is not found, we put something on it and set its key. The chain that we `return` becomes the context for the `.val()` which then `console.log`s out `{hello: "world"}`!

    - Be careful as `.not` is not an idempotent operation! If a false positive does happen, gun will attempt to do a pseudo merge on **get** across nodes sharing the same key.

--------------------------------------
# <a name="val"></a> gun.val(callback)

  - Is the same as **on** except only gets called once after the first peer, including the local peer, replies. It is slower than **on** and should be avoided, but is sometimes necessary. If you are using **val** it probably means your code has become spaghetti and very procedural, **on** is much cleaner and more functional.

  - `callback` is a `function(){}` which gets called as `callback(data, field)` once after the node has been loaded, and has no realtime features.

  - `options` none currently available.

  - Examples

    - ... 
      ```javascript
      gun.get('user/thedoctor').val(function(who, field){
        console.log('The Doctor', who, field);
        // {title: "The Doctor", phone: '770-090-0461'}
      })
      ```

    - `gun.get('user/thedoctor').val()` will automatically `console.log`, for easy debugging purposes.

Commit message:

Added note warning of 0.2.x status

API-(v0.3.x).md, after:

---------------------------------------------------------------------

***Please post documentation comments, questions, and suggestions to
[[issue #70|https://github.com/amark/gun/issues/70]].***

---------------------------------------------------------------------

> **This page is currently being written**

**Table of Contents**
 - [Gun constructor](#Gun)
 - [gun.put](#put)
   - [examples](#examples-1)
   - [chain](#chain-context)
 - [gun.key](#key)
   - [examples](#examples-2)
   - [chain](#chain-context-1)
 - [gun.get](#get)
   - [examples](#examples-3)
   - [chain](#chain-context-2)
 - [gun.path](#path)
   - [chain](#chain-context-3)
 - [gun.back](#back)
   - [examples](#examples-4)
   - [chain](#chain-context-4)
 - [gun.on](#on)
 - [gun.map](#map)
 - [gun.val](#val)
 - [gun.not](#not)

# <a name="Gun"></a>Gun(options)
Used to creates a new gun database instance.

```javascript
var gun = new Gun(options)
```
> **note:** `Gun` works with or without the `new` operator.

## Options

 - `no params/undefined` creates a local datastore using the default persistence layer, either localStorage or a JSON file.

 - passing an `array` of URLs creates a local datastore and attempts to sync it with each URL.

   - when only syncing with a single peer, you can leave out the array, sending in just a `string`.

 - `{ peers, wire, uuid... }` the previous options are actually aggregated into an `object` under the hood.

   - `options.peers` is an object, where the URLs are properties, and the value is an empty object.

   - `options.wire` allows you to manually override module hooks for `put` and `get`
     (however, gun exposes a more streamlined approach for building extensions and modules).

   - `options.uuid` allows you to override the default 24 random alphanumeric soul generator with
      your own function.

   - `options['module name']` allows you to pass options to a 3rd party module. Their project README
     will likely list the exposed options.
     [Here is a list of such modules...](https://github.com/amark/gun/wiki#modules)

   - `options.init` is a boolean that tells the system whether you want to implicitly create
	   data if it doesn't exist.

### Examples
Sync with one peer
```javascript
Gun('http://yourdomain.com/gun')
```

Sync with many peers
```javascript
Gun(['http://server1.com', 'http://server2.com'])
```

Working with modules
```javascript
Gun({
  // Amazon S3 (comes bundled)
  s3: {
    key: '',
    secret: '',
    bucket: ''
  },

  // simple JSON persistence (bundled)
  // meant for ease of getting started
  // NOT meant for production
  file: 'file/path.json'
})
```

Advanced options
```javascript
Gun({
  // set your own UUID function
  uuid: function () {...},

  // set your own get/put handlers
  wire: {
    get: getHandler,
    put: putHandler
  },

  // disable implicit collections
  init: false
})
```
---------------------------------------------------------
<h1><a name="put"></a>gun.put(data, callback)</h1>
Save data into gun, syncing it with your connected peers.

It has three parameters, and only the first is required:

 1. the `data` to save
 2. an optional `callback`, invoked on each acknowledgment
 3. an `options` object, though no options are available yet

`gun.put(data, callback)`

## Allowed types

`.put` restricts the input to a specific subset:

 - `objects`:
   [partial](https://github.com/amark/gun/wiki/Partials-and-Circular-References#),
   [circular](https://github.com/amark/gun/wiki/Partials-and-Circular-References#circular-references), and nested
 - `strings`
 - `numbers`
 - `booleans`
 - `null`

Gun will refuse `undefined`, `NaN`, `Infinity`, and `arrays`.

> Traditional arrays are dangerous in real-time apps

## Callback(error, ok)
  
The `callback` is fired each time a peer responds with an error or successful persistence message, including the local cache. Acknowledgement can be slow, but the write propagates across networks as fast as the pipes connecting them.

If the error argument is undefined, then the operation succeeded, although the exact values are left up to the module developer.

## Examples

Saving objects
```javascript
gun.path('propertyName').put({
  property: 'value',
  object: {
    nested: true
  }
})
```

Saving primitives
```javascript
// strings
gun.path('name.first').put('Dave')

// numbers
gun.path('temperature').put(58.6)

// booleans
gun.path('enabled').put(true)
```

Using the callback
```javascript
gun.path('survey.submission').put(submission, function (err) {
  if (err) {
    return ui.show.error(err)
  }
  ui.show.success(true)
})
```

## Chain context
`gun.put` does not change the gun context.
```javascript
gun.path('key').put(value) /* same context as */ gun.path('key')
```

--------------------------------------------------
# <a name="key"></a>gun.key(name)
Index your data, so you can find it later, faster.

We can think of keys as variables pointing to an object, and a node can have more than one name. Keys are one of gun's more powerful features.

The `.key` method takes 3 arguments, and only the first is required:
 - the `name` of the category to join under
 - the `callback` to invoke on each acknowledgment
 - `options` for configuration

## Name
A string representing the name of a group to attach a node to. Common practice is to namespace your keys into routes: `.key('users/cities/Provo')`

> **note:** keys are case sensitive

## Callback(error, ok)
The same behavior as the callback in [gun.put](#put).

## Options
Ignore the chain context, tagging a node directly by it's soul.
```javascript
// find node by soul "Zwl6..." and tag it under "examples"
gun.key('examples', null, 'Zwl6PaS4oo7Ivt21X5bU0nds')
```

## Examples
Aggregating data into a named object

```javascript
gun.get(group).path('members').map(function (member) {
  // group each member's interests together
  this.path('interests').key(interests)
})

// each member's interests
// now indexed into a single group
gun.get(interests)
```

Tagging data on insertion
```javascript
gun.get(group).path([memberID, 'contact']).put({
  twitter: '@databaseGun',
  gitter: 'gitter.im/amark/gun'
}).key(group + '/' + memberID + '/contact')
```
By putting a name on the data, the operation will be faster in the future since it won't need to request the potentially large `group` object, or even the member object. We can skip straight to the data we need. This functionality pairs nicely with [`.not`](#not).

## Chain context
`gun.key` does not change the context.
```javascript
gun.path('node').key('nodes') /* same context as */ gun.path('node')
```

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
# <a name="get"></a>gun.get(name)
Load all data under that [key](#key) into the context, saving it to local persistence.

It takes three parameters:

 - `keyName`
 - `callback`
 - `options`

You'll almost never need to use the `callback` or `options` parameters, unless you're building bare-metal extensions.

## Name
The [`keyName`](#key) string is the name of the data you want to retrieve.

> Note that if you use `.path` or `.put` after retrieving a key that doesn't exist, the key is implicitly initialized as an empty object.

```javascript
gun.get(existingData).put({ property: 'value' })
/*
  {
    data: ...,
    property: 'value',
    data: ...
  }
*/

gun.get(nonExistentKey).put({ property: 'value' })
// { property: 'value' }
```

## Callback(error, node)
The callback is a listener for errors and raw node data. It may be called multiple times for a single request, since gun uses a streaming architecture. If you need to listen for incoming data, use [`.not`](#not) or [`.val`](#val).

> The callback is exposed for bare-metal extensions. Most developers will never need it.

```javascript
gun.get(key, function (error, node) {
  // called many times
})
```

## Options
Currently one option is standardized: force gun to draw from persistence, not memory.

```javascript
// read from storage, not memory
gun.get(key, null, {
  force: true
})
```

## Examples

Retrieving a key
```javascript
// retrieve all available seats
gun.get('seats/available').map(ui.show.seats)
```

Using the callback
```javascript
gun.get(key, function (error, node) {
  if (error) {
    server.log(error)
  }
})
```

## Chain context
After calling `gun.get`, the chain context refers to the data you requested, regardless of what happened before calling `gun.get`.

```javascript
gun.get('materials').get('users') /* same context as */ gun.get('users')
```

---------------------------------------
# <a name="path"></a>gun.path(property)
Navigate through a node's properties

`.path` accepts three parameters, but only the first is required.

 - the `property` name
 - an optional `callback` function
 - an `options` object, although none are supported yet

## Property
The `property` is the name of the field to move to.

```javascript
// move to the "themes" field on the settings object
gun.get('settings').path('themes')
```

Once you've changed the context, you can read, write, and `path` forward from that field. Although you can just chain one `path` after another, that can be unnecessarily verbose, so there are two shorthand styles:

 - dot format
 - array format

Here's dot notation in action:
```javascript
// verbose
gun.get('settings').path('themes').path('active')

// shorthand
gun.get('settings').path('themes.active')
```

And the array format, which really becomes useful when using variables instead of literal strings:
```javascript
gun.get('settings').path(['themes', themeName])
```

> If at any point the path is undefined, it's implicitly initialized as an empty object.

### Unexpected behavior
The dot notation can do some strange things if you're not expecting it. Under the hood, everything is changed into a string, including floating point numbers. If you use a decimal in your path, it will split into two paths...
```javascript
gun.path(30.5)
// interprets to
gun.path(30).path(5)
```

This can be especially confusing if you've disabled implicit initialization, as the chain might never resolve to a value.

We may change this in the near future.

## Callback(error, data, property)
The `callback` is used by bare-metal extensions to provide handling for errors and raw data streams. Like `.get`, if you want to listen for new data, use the [`.on`](#on) or [`.val`](#val) methods. With that said, the callback takes three arguments:

 - `error`
 - the `data` partial
 - the `property` name

## Chain context
`gun.path` creates a new context each time it's called, and is always a result of the previous context.
```javascript
gun.get('API').path('path').path('chain')
/* is different from */
gun.get('API').path('path')
/* and is different from */
gun.get('API')
```

-----------------------------
# <a name="back"></a>gun.back
Move up to the parent context on the chain.

Every time a new chain is created, a reference to the old context is kept in the `back` property. It's not a function, but a reference to the `this` value you had *before* it was changed. For example, when calling [`.path`](#path), a new context is assigned to the `this` value, allowing you to chain directly off your context in jQuery style. If you want to return to your old context, just use `gun.back`.

## Examples
Moving to a parent context
```javascript
gun.get('peers')
  /* change the context to my peer */
  .path(myself)
  .put(me)
  /* go back to the "get" statement */
  .back.map(...)
```

Another example
```javascript
gun.get('players').get('game/history').back
// is the same as...
gun.get('players')
```

## Chain Context
The context will always be different, since `.back`'s only purpose is to change it.
```javascript
gun.path('property') /* is not the same as */ gun.path('property').back
```
<br /><br /><br />

> **Note:** the following documentation is adapted from version `0.2.x`, and is currently under revision.

<br /><br /><br />

------------------------------------
# <a name="on"></a> gun.on(callback)

  - Retrieve the raw javascript data associated with the `key`, and subscribe to all subsequent realtime changes. You want to use this method to actually synchronously react to your data, rather than being stuck in async land.

  - `callback` is a `function(){}` which gets called as `callback(data, field)` and every time the node changes. Where

    - `data` is a raw javascript object or primitive.

    - `field` is the field name it came from, if any.

  - `options` as `true` aggregates into an `{obj:'ect'}` with

    - `options.change` as `true` makes `data` only have the delta difference of the change that happened, rather than the full node again and again.

  - Examples

    - ... 
      ```javascript
      gun.get('user/thedoctor').on(function(who, field){
        console.log('The Doctor', who, field);
        // {title: "The Doctor", phone: '770-090-0461'}
      })
      ```

    - While this looks no different from above, the `delta` will be on subsequent events. 
      ```javascript
      gun.get('user/thedoctor').on(function(delta, field){
        console.log('What changes happened to The Doctor?', delta, field);
        // {title: "The Doctor", phone: '770-090-0461'}
      }, true)
      ```

-------------------------------------
# <a name="map"></a>gun.map(callback)

  - Rather than having to know each field in advance and have to path into it separately, we can iterate over each field dynamically.

  - `callback` is a `function(){}` which gets called as `callback(data, field)`, you can either use it as is or in conjunction with **on** or **val**. In the future this `callback` will be used to filter the data or do arbitrary queries.

  - `options` as `true` aggregates into an `{obj:'ect'}` with

    - `options.node` as `true` makes map only iterate over nested objects, skipping primitive values.

  - Examples

    - ...
      ```javascript
      gun.get('user/thedoctor').map(function(value, field){
        console.log("For each field", value, field);
        // '770-090-0461', 'phone'
        // 'The Doctor', 'title'
      })
      ```

    - ...
      ```javascript
      gun.get('user/thedoctor').map().on(function(value, field){
        console.log("For each field, and on every change", value, field);
        // '770-090-0461', 'phone'
        // 'The Doctor', 'title'
      })
      ```

    - ...
      ```javascript
      gun.get('user/thedoctor').map().val(function(value, field){
        console.log("For each field, just once", value, field);
        // '770-090-0461', 'phone'
        // 'The Doctor', 'title'
      })
      ```


--------------------------------------
# <a name="not"></a> gun.not(callback)

  - Sometimes you might want to check if data on a key has not yet been defined. **Warning** there is no guarantee that the data does not actually exist somewhere on some peer that got disconnected. But, if you are using gun in a fairly traditional client-server setup this should mostly work but we still advise to avoid it.

  - `callback` is a `function(){}` which gets called as `callback(key, kick)` only if the `key` could not be found, where

    - `key` is the key name that could not be found.

    - `kick` is a `function(){}` which you call as `kick(chain)` where `chain` is some gun reference. Generally this is not needed, so you can simply `return chain` instead.

  - `options` none currently available.

  - Examples

    - ...
      ```javascript
      gun.get('somewhere').not(function(key, kick){
        return gun.put({hello: "world"}).key(key);
      }).val()
      ```
      if `'somewhere'` is not found, we put something on it and set its key. The chain that we `return` becomes the context for the `.val()` which then `console.log`s out `{hello: "world"}`!

    - Be careful as `.not` is not an idempotent operation! If a false positive does happen, gun will attempt to do a pseudo merge on **get** across nodes sharing the same key.

--------------------------------------
# <a name="val"></a> gun.val(callback)

  - Is the same as **on** except only gets called once after the first peer, including the local peer, replies. It is slower than **on** and should be avoided, but is sometimes necessary. If you are using **val** it probably means your code has become spaghetti and very procedural, **on** is much cleaner and more functional.

  - `callback` is a `function(){}` which gets called as `callback(data, field)` once after the node has been loaded, and has no realtime features.

  - `options` none currently available.

  - Examples

    - ... 
      ```javascript
      gun.get('user/thedoctor').val(function(who, field){
        console.log('The Doctor', who, field);
        // {title: "The Doctor", phone: '770-090-0461'}
      })
      ```

    - `gun.get('user/thedoctor').val()` will automatically `console.log`, for easy debugging purposes.
