Awesome-GUN.md, before:

[![Awesome](https://awesome.re/badge.svg)](https://awesome.re)

A curated list of [Gun](https://github.com/amark/gun) resources, modules and projects.  :gun: 

## Extensions

 - [gun-tag](https://www.npmjs.com/package/gun-tag)
Tag, untag, filter and find intersects on nodes ~ By [Stefdv](https://github.com/stefdv)

 - [gun-schema](https://github.com/gundb/gun-schema)
Schema validation module for node and the browser ~ By [RangerMauve](https://github.com/RangerMauve)

 - [labelmaker](https://github.com/PsychoLlama/labelmaker)
Organize and index data into groups with tags ~ By [PsychoLlama](https://github.com/PsychoLlama)

 - [onward](https://github.com/gundb/onward)
Listen for changes on an entire document at once ~ By [amark](https://github.com/amark)

 - [reticle](https://github.com/PsychoLlama/Reticle)
Namespace your data, preventing naming conflicts and adding clear separation between apps ~ By [PsychoLlama](https://github.com/PsychoLlama)

 - [synchronous](https://github.com/gundb/synchronous)
One way deep (document oriented) object data binding, similar to [onward](https://github.com/gundb/onward) ~ By [amark](https://github.com/amark)

 - [gun-ws](https://npmjs.org/packages/gun-ws) [on Github](https://github.com/d3x0r/gun-ws)
Extended websocket provider for Gun.  Initially meant to provide a way to connect multiple servers to a single Gun instance ~ By [d3x0r](https://github.com/d3x0r)
    - Uses 'ws' npm package for websockets.  Should either migrate to [sack.vfs](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sack.vfs#websocket-module)

 - [load](https://github.com/IMGNRY/load)
Load full document structures to Gun ~ By [IMGNRY](https://github.com/IMGNRY)

 - [gun-most](https://github.com/ctrlplusb/gun-most)
Extends gunDB with the ability to chain into most.js observables ~ By [ctrlplusb](https://github.com/ctrlplusb)

 - [graphql-gun](https://github.com/brysgo/graphql-gun)
Augmented graphql query interface for Gun

## Adapters

 - [gun-level](https://github.com/gundb/gun-level)
A LevelDB adapter that works with the levelDB module ecosystem ~ By [PsychoLlama](https://github.com/PsychoLlama)

 - [gun-level-browser-indexedDB](https://github.com/zrrrzzt/choo-gun-leveldb-test)
Example of LevelDB binding with indexedDB in the browser with GUN and choo ~ By [zrrrzzt](https://github.com/zrrrzzt)

 - [gun-mongo](https://github.com/sjones6/gun-mongo)
A MongoDB Adapter that stores entire nodes in Mongo documents ~ By [sjones6](https://github.com/sjones6)

 - [gun-mongo-key](https://github.com/sjones6/gun-mongo-key)
A MongoDB Adapter that stores nodes as key:value pairs in Mongo documents ~ By [sjones6](https://github.com/sjones6)

 - [gun-db](https://npmjs.org/packages/gun-db)[(on Github)](https://github.com/d3x0r/gun-db)
Sqlite/ODBC storage adapter for Gun ~ By [d3x0r](https://github.com/d3x0r)
    - Depends on [sack.vfs](https://npmjs.org/packages/sack.vfs#sqlite-interface).  Can provide encryption for storage.

 - [gun-file](https://npmjs.org/packages/gun-file)[(on Github)](https://github.com/d3x0r/gun-db)
Local Storage adapter for Gun ~ By [d3x0r](https://github.com/d3x0r)
    - Depends on [JSON6](https://npmjs.org/packages/json-6)

 - [gun-cassandra](https://github.com/lmangani/gun-cassandra)
Experimental Cassandra / Elassandra persistence layer for Gun ~ By [lmangani](https://github.com/lmangani)

 - [gun-elastic](https://github.com/lmangani/gun-elastic)
Experimental Elasticsearch persistence layer for Gun/Flint ~ By [lmangani](https://github.com/lmangani)

 - [gun-flint](https://github.com/sjones6/gun-flint)
Micro-framework for building Gun adapters ~ By [sjones6](https://github.com/sjones6)

 - [gun-adapter-perf](https://github.com/sjones6/gun-adapter-perf)
https://github.com/sjones6/gun-adapter-perf ~ By [sjones6](https://github.com/sjones6)

## Snippets

... see footer.

## Modules

 - [gun-hue](https://github.com/PsychoLlama/gun-hue)
Explore and change your hue lighting with gun! ~ By [PsychoLlama](https://github.com/PsychoLlama)

 - [gun-ui-lcd](https://github.com/Stefdv/gun-ui-lcd) 
Component to attach an html lcd to Gun ~ By [Stefdv](https://github.com/Stefdv)

## UI Frameworks

 - [vue-gun](https://github.com/sjones6/vue-gun)
Vue plugin to add Gun integration ~ By [sjones6](https://github.com/sjones6)

 - [gun-react-native](https://github.com/sjones6/gun-react-native)
A distribution of Gun designed to work with React Native out of the box ~ By [sjones6](https://github.com/sjones6)

 - [as](https://github.com/amark/gun/wiki/as)
Mark's personal UI Framework with deep assumptions and opinionated bindings to GUN ~ By [amark](https://github.com/amark)

 - [gun-realm](https://github.com/sjones6/gun-realm)
A React Native RealmJS adapter for GunJS ~ By [sjones6](https://github.com/sjones6)

 - [gun-ui-gauge](https://github.com/Stefdv/gun-ui-gauge)
(Still under development to fit the latest Gun version ( 0.9.x ) )
Add a GunDB controlled gauge to your webpage ~ By [Stefdv](https://github.com/Stefdv)

 - [gun-kibana-graph](https://github.com/lmangani/kibana_graph)
Visualization Plugin to display Gun graphs in Kibana ~ By [lmangani](https://github.com/lmangani)

## Helpers

[polyGun](https://github.com/lmangani/polyGun-letsencrypt)
GunDB Polyglot Server [ https/wss + letsencrypt ]

[gun-host](https://github.com/qxip/gun-host)
GunDB HTTP/HTTPS Server and API  ~ By [Sergey Bondarenko](https://github.com/sergibondarenko)

## Examples

Examples, demos and tools demonstrating Gun features and capabilities

 - [GitHub Examples](https://github.com/amark/gun/tree/master/examples)
Original, up to date Gun examples

 - [gun-scape](https://github.com/lmangani/gun-scape)
GunDB Cytoscape Graph Visualizer with [Live Editor](https://goo.gl/qDTBx7)

 - [Next.js](https://github.com/zrrrzzt/gun-next-example)
Example of how to get started with Next.js and GUN!

 - [GunStore.io](https://github.com/lmangani/gunstore.io) 
Storing data in Gun DB by sending simple HTTP requests & custom URLs

## Deployment

 - [arsenal-dock](https://github.com/sjones6/arsenal-dock)
A Docker container for running GunJS

## Projects

Projects using or integrating with Gun

 - [GiveMeCredit](https://github.com/GiveMeCredit/extension)
A cryptocurrency where you earn trust and contribute value

 - [Trace](https://github.com/PsychoLlama/Trace) 
~ By [PsychoLlama](https://github.com/PsychoLlama) - **[live demo](http://trace.gundb.io)**

 - [Connect-4](https://github.com/PsychoLlama/connect-four) 
~ By [PsychoLlama](https://github.com/PsychoLlama) - **[live demo](https://gun-c4.herokuapp.com/)**

 - [TodoMVC](https://github.com/jveres/todomvc) 
~ By [jveres](https://github.com/jveres) - **[live demo](http://todos.loqali.com/)**

 - [creeper.im](https://creeper.im)
Send public messages to nearby people.

 - [GoShareData](https://github.com/zubairq/GoShareData)
An enterprise system for data sharing database data with colleagues 

 - [JS-Trafficlights](https://github.com/niccord/js-trafficlights)
Trafficlights manager for limited resource access, like VPNs or remote desktops

 - [SENTINL](https://github.com/sirensolutions/sentinl)
Clustering the Kibi/Kibana Alerting & Reporting Application _(watcher)_ ~ By [lmangani](https://github.com/lmangani) and [Sergey Bondarenko](https://github.com/sergibondarenko)

 - [paStash](https://github.com/sipcapture/paStash)
Spaghetti I/O Event Processing, Interpolation, Correlation with Gun persistence ~ By [lmangani](https://github.com/lmangani)

 - [fastify-gun](https://github.com/lmangani/fastify-gun)
Fastify is a Fast and low overhead modular web framework, supporting persistence layer using Gun ~ By [lmangani](https://github.com/lmangani)

 - [PiTherm](https://github.com/paullj1/PiTherm)
Raspberry Pi thermostat application using Gun to sync client UIs ~ By [paullj1](https://github.com/paullj1)

## Archive

The old pages are: (these will be archived after migrated to this page)

 - [Projects](https://github.com/amark/gun/wiki/Projects)
 - [Modules](https://github.com/amark/gun/wiki/Modules)
 - [Snippets (v0.6.x)](https://github.com/amark/gun/wiki/Snippets-(v0.6.x))
 - [Snippets (v0.3.x)](https://github.com/amark/gun/wiki/Snippets-(v0.3.x))

Commit message:

added `gun-synclist` to modules

Awesome-GUN.md, after:

[![Awesome](https://awesome.re/badge.svg)](https://awesome.re)

A curated list of [Gun](https://github.com/amark/gun) resources, modules and projects.  :gun: 

## Extensions
 - [gun-synclist](https://www.npmjs.com/package/gun-synclist) Get an Array with full nodes on init, after that on every change only the changed - full - node, its soul and its index in the Array.
 - [gun-tag](https://www.npmjs.com/package/gun-tag)
Tag, untag, filter and find intersects on nodes ~ By [Stefdv](https://github.com/stefdv)

 - [gun-schema](https://github.com/gundb/gun-schema)
Schema validation module for node and the browser ~ By [RangerMauve](https://github.com/RangerMauve)

 - [labelmaker](https://github.com/PsychoLlama/labelmaker)
Organize and index data into groups with tags ~ By [PsychoLlama](https://github.com/PsychoLlama)

 - [onward](https://github.com/gundb/onward)
Listen for changes on an entire document at once ~ By [amark](https://github.com/amark)

 - [reticle](https://github.com/PsychoLlama/Reticle)
Namespace your data, preventing naming conflicts and adding clear separation between apps ~ By [PsychoLlama](https://github.com/PsychoLlama)

 - [synchronous](https://github.com/gundb/synchronous)
One way deep (document oriented) object data binding, similar to [onward](https://github.com/gundb/onward) ~ By [amark](https://github.com/amark)

 - [gun-ws](https://npmjs.org/packages/gun-ws) [on Github](https://github.com/d3x0r/gun-ws)
Extended websocket provider for Gun.  Initially meant to provide a way to connect multiple servers to a single Gun instance ~ By [d3x0r](https://github.com/d3x0r)
    - Uses 'ws' npm package for websockets.  Should either migrate to [sack.vfs](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sack.vfs#websocket-module)

 - [load](https://github.com/IMGNRY/load)
Load full document structures to Gun ~ By [IMGNRY](https://github.com/IMGNRY)

 - [gun-most](https://github.com/ctrlplusb/gun-most)
Extends gunDB with the ability to chain into most.js observables ~ By [ctrlplusb](https://github.com/ctrlplusb)

 - [graphql-gun](https://github.com/brysgo/graphql-gun)
Augmented graphql query interface for Gun

## Adapters

 - [gun-level](https://github.com/gundb/gun-level)
A LevelDB adapter that works with the levelDB module ecosystem ~ By [PsychoLlama](https://github.com/PsychoLlama)

 - [gun-level-browser-indexedDB](https://github.com/zrrrzzt/choo-gun-leveldb-test)
Example of LevelDB binding with indexedDB in the browser with GUN and choo ~ By [zrrrzzt](https://github.com/zrrrzzt)

 - [gun-mongo](https://github.com/sjones6/gun-mongo)
A MongoDB Adapter that stores entire nodes in Mongo documents ~ By [sjones6](https://github.com/sjones6)

 - [gun-mongo-key](https://github.com/sjones6/gun-mongo-key)
A MongoDB Adapter that stores nodes as key:value pairs in Mongo documents ~ By [sjones6](https://github.com/sjones6)

 - [gun-db](https://npmjs.org/packages/gun-db)[(on Github)](https://github.com/d3x0r/gun-db)
Sqlite/ODBC storage adapter for Gun ~ By [d3x0r](https://github.com/d3x0r)
    - Depends on [sack.vfs](https://npmjs.org/packages/sack.vfs#sqlite-interface).  Can provide encryption for storage.

 - [gun-file](https://npmjs.org/packages/gun-file)[(on Github)](https://github.com/d3x0r/gun-db)
Local Storage adapter for Gun ~ By [d3x0r](https://github.com/d3x0r)
    - Depends on [JSON6](https://npmjs.org/packages/json-6)

 - [gun-cassandra](https://github.com/lmangani/gun-cassandra)
Experimental Cassandra / Elassandra persistence layer for Gun ~ By [lmangani](https://github.com/lmangani)

 - [gun-elastic](https://github.com/lmangani/gun-elastic)
Experimental Elasticsearch persistence layer for Gun/Flint ~ By [lmangani](https://github.com/lmangani)

 - [gun-flint](https://github.com/sjones6/gun-flint)
Micro-framework for building Gun adapters ~ By [sjones6](https://github.com/sjones6)

 - [gun-adapter-perf](https://github.com/sjones6/gun-adapter-perf)
https://github.com/sjones6/gun-adapter-perf ~ By [sjones6](https://github.com/sjones6)

## Snippets

... see footer.

## Modules

 - [gun-hue](https://github.com/PsychoLlama/gun-hue)
Explore and change your hue lighting with gun! ~ By [PsychoLlama](https://github.com/PsychoLlama)

 - [gun-ui-lcd](https://github.com/Stefdv/gun-ui-lcd) 
Component to attach an html lcd to Gun ~ By [Stefdv](https://github.com/Stefdv)

## UI Frameworks

 - [vue-gun](https://github.com/sjones6/vue-gun)
Vue plugin to add Gun integration ~ By [sjones6](https://github.com/sjones6)

 - [gun-react-native](https://github.com/sjones6/gun-react-native)
A distribution of Gun designed to work with React Native out of the box ~ By [sjones6](https://github.com/sjones6)

 - [as](https://github.com/amark/gun/wiki/as)
Mark's personal UI Framework with deep assumptions and opinionated bindings to GUN ~ By [amark](https://github.com/amark)

 - [gun-realm](https://github.com/sjones6/gun-realm)
A React Native RealmJS adapter for GunJS ~ By [sjones6](https://github.com/sjones6)

 - [gun-ui-gauge](https://github.com/Stefdv/gun-ui-gauge)
(Still under development to fit the latest Gun version ( 0.9.x ) )
Add a GunDB controlled gauge to your webpage ~ By [Stefdv](https://github.com/Stefdv)

 - [gun-kibana-graph](https://github.com/lmangani/kibana_graph)
Visualization Plugin to display Gun graphs in Kibana ~ By [lmangani](https://github.com/lmangani)

## Helpers

[polyGun](https://github.com/lmangani/polyGun-letsencrypt)
GunDB Polyglot Server [ https/wss + letsencrypt ]

[gun-host](https://github.com/qxip/gun-host)
GunDB HTTP/HTTPS Server and API  ~ By [Sergey Bondarenko](https://github.com/sergibondarenko)

## Examples

Examples, demos and tools demonstrating Gun features and capabilities

 - [GitHub Examples](https://github.com/amark/gun/tree/master/examples)
Original, up to date Gun examples

 - [gun-scape](https://github.com/lmangani/gun-scape)
GunDB Cytoscape Graph Visualizer with [Live Editor](https://goo.gl/qDTBx7)

 - [Next.js](https://github.com/zrrrzzt/gun-next-example)
Example of how to get started with Next.js and GUN!

 - [GunStore.io](https://github.com/lmangani/gunstore.io) 
Storing data in Gun DB by sending simple HTTP requests & custom URLs

## Deployment

 - [arsenal-dock](https://github.com/sjones6/arsenal-dock)
A Docker container for running GunJS

## Projects

Projects using or integrating with Gun

 - [GiveMeCredit](https://github.com/GiveMeCredit/extension)
A cryptocurrency where you earn trust and contribute value

 - [Trace](https://github.com/PsychoLlama/Trace) 
~ By [PsychoLlama](https://github.com/PsychoLlama) - **[live demo](http://trace.gundb.io)**

 - [Connect-4](https://github.com/PsychoLlama/connect-four) 
~ By [PsychoLlama](https://github.com/PsychoLlama) - **[live demo](https://gun-c4.herokuapp.com/)**

 - [TodoMVC](https://github.com/jveres/todomvc) 
~ By [jveres](https://github.com/jveres) - **[live demo](http://todos.loqali.com/)**

 - [creeper.im](https://creeper.im)
Send public messages to nearby people.

 - [GoShareData](https://github.com/zubairq/GoShareData)
An enterprise system for data sharing database data with colleagues 

 - [JS-Trafficlights](https://github.com/niccord/js-trafficlights)
Trafficlights manager for limited resource access, like VPNs or remote desktops

 - [SENTINL](https://github.com/sirensolutions/sentinl)
Clustering the Kibi/Kibana Alerting & Reporting Application _(watcher)_ ~ By [lmangani](https://github.com/lmangani) and [Sergey Bondarenko](https://github.com/sergibondarenko)

 - [paStash](https://github.com/sipcapture/paStash)
Spaghetti I/O Event Processing, Interpolation, Correlation with Gun persistence ~ By [lmangani](https://github.com/lmangani)

 - [fastify-gun](https://github.com/lmangani/fastify-gun)
Fastify is a Fast and low overhead modular web framework, supporting persistence layer using Gun ~ By [lmangani](https://github.com/lmangani)

 - [PiTherm](https://github.com/paullj1/PiTherm)
Raspberry Pi thermostat application using Gun to sync client UIs ~ By [paullj1](https://github.com/paullj1)

## Archive

The old pages are: (these will be archived after migrated to this page)

 - [Projects](https://github.com/amark/gun/wiki/Projects)
 - [Modules](https://github.com/amark/gun/wiki/Modules)
 - [Snippets (v0.6.x)](https://github.com/amark/gun/wiki/Snippets-(v0.6.x))
 - [Snippets (v0.3.x)](https://github.com/amark/gun/wiki/Snippets-(v0.3.x))
